When we follow these texts, again as in the great masters of Khenchen Palden Sherab Rinpoche,
we should always tell many talks, and as well as I had great opportunity to meet also and
receive some other teachings from great other masters, and they always explain as very
lineage systems. So I like trying to follow my best capability to that systems. In that way,
when do you understand that kind of let foundation lay out from that, and now I follow with it,
with these texts. These texts, when you follow, and they always teaching said,
this text has three meanings, kind of both divided in three, the beginning, middle and ending,
concluding. What is the beginning? Beginning is title, middle is the principle topic of this,
and concluding is then concluding of this text with girlfriends. Those are the three
principles or the divisions of these texts. And so now, in that way, I follow with this title.
Title is the general meaning or aesthetic in the general meaning of the Madhyamaka, that is
known as the enjoyment, enjoyment like, like L-A-K-E, like of Nagarjuna. That is roughly my
translations. So that is title. And now, I already mentioned about things, but however, again,
then the post, this is a subject, it will come all, but now we talk about Madhyamaka. Madhyamaka
is a Sanskrit word and translated into English, I think middle words, middle words. In a debate,
it is known as Uma, Uma. And now, what is Uma, or what is Madhyamaka? And what is middle word?
Middle word means not best to any extremes. Not standing on any, or not standing on any extremes.
Lyle is talking with him, he is just loud.
Oh, okay, oh, oh, this is what is called, excited, excited.
Buddha is already popular.
I told you, when you go to all those offensive department stores, you always see Buddha.
I mean many times, many times you see Buddha. So that means they like Buddha.
And this is how Buddha becomes a part of the patient. I hope Buddha will be going someday,
running on the runway, or probably will see, on the runway, with a lot of many glamorous.
So anyway, okay, now back to our topic, Madhyamaka. Madhyamaka in Uma. Uma, again I said,
is translated as middle, middle word. And now what that really means here, Uma, or middle,
middle word means, means, means not standing on any extremes. Or, or maybe you don't have to use
excellent, any places, any places that you don't. Who, who is not, who should not stand?
Primarily talking about our mind. Your mind, my mind, not standing, not ordering anything.
If you're not ordering anything in your mind, then it is.
Pretty much Madhyamaka status. So that's not holy, not holy. That meaning, what the great master
Buddha said in his great teaching, known as Samadhi Raad Satras, or sometimes is also known as
Light Satras, known as Light Satras. In that teaching said, "Holding, holding existing,
not existing, both are extreme. And holding, this is clean, this is dirty, it is
edge." The expert, or sorry, wise person, should not stay any of those places, nor even if you
not stay in the center, should not stay even in the center. That is the what, is the Madhyamaka.
So that means, not free from the existing, non-existing, neither, either dirty, clean, neither,
either free from that everything, even we're thinking holding the Madhyamaka or the center,
that should not stand. Release that. When you release that, again you continue that text,
see it. Then you reach to the, it is beyond the world, beyond the level, beyond the sun,
as like natural, like the sky. When you realize this natural, that individually knowledge will
be bursted. Knowledge is not stopped. The wisdom is not stopped with any edge, it's free. That
knowledge and the fearlessness, this is that in wise persons, the knowledge and yeah, knowledge
and wisdom become the endless, infinite. That's what the great master says. So therefore, this
Madhyamaka means not just holding something here, not holding Madhyamaka or the middle.
That released, that removed. Total free to every aspect of the grasping and cleaning.
As like middle sky. And for that reason, great master, Nanaarjuna said in his root tracks,
with there is no edge, if there is no border, how should be their center? He used logic.
If there is no border, there is no middle. That is what Madhyamaka is.
That is the view. That is the view of the Madhyamaka and that is the nature of what it is.